I AM PREPARED TO DIE SPEECH NELSON MANDELA
1] 
I am the First Accused.
I hold a Bachelor's Degree in Arts and practised as an attorney in
Johannesburg for a number of years in partnership with Oliver
Tambo. I am a convicted prisoner serving five years for leaving the
country without a permit and for inciting people to go on strike at the
end of May 1961.

2]
At the outset, I want to say that the suggestion made by the State in its
opening that the struggle in South Africa is under the influence of
foreigners or communists is wholly incorrect. I have done whatever I
did, both as an individual and as a leader of my people, because of my
experience in South Africa and my own proudly felt African
background, and not because of what any outsider might have said.
In my youth in the Transkei I listened to the elders of my tribe telling
stories of the old days. Amongst the tales they related to me were those
of wars fought by our ancestors in defence of the fatherland. The
names of Dingane and Bambata, Hintsa and Makana, Squngthi and
Dalasile, Moshoeshoe and Sekhukhuni, were praised as the glory of
the entire African nation. I hoped then that life might offer me the
opportunity to serve my people and make my own humble
contribution to their freedom struggle. This is what has motivated me
in all that I have done in relation to the charges made against me in
this case.
3]
Having said this, I must deal immediately and at some length with the
question of violence. Some of the things so far told to the Court are
true and some are untrue. I do not, however, deny that I planned
sabotage. I did not plan it in a spirit of recklessness, nor because I
have any love of violence. I planned it as a result of a calm and sober
assessment of the political situation that had arisen after many years
of tyranny, exploitation, and oppression of my people by the Whites.
I admit immediately that I was one of the persons who helped to form
Umkhonto we Sizwe, and that I played a prominent role in its affairs
until I was arrested in August 1962.
In the statement which I am about to make I shall correct certain false
impressions which have been created by State witnesses. Amongst

